>> Mike North: The first client
side attack we're gonna talk about
is probably the most prevalent.
It's called cross-site scripting.
Cross-site scripting begins with an X
because CSS already means something for
front end developers.
This category of attacks is called
an injection attack where we're
basically like, we're putting content
in a place that is designed for text,
but we can basically trick a system into
treating it as code and executing it.
We're allowing our content to
become code and to be executed.
Cross-site scripting vulnerabilitiesare
are extremely prevalent.
It's difficult to pin down
exactly what the number is,
like what percent of websites
are vulnerable to this kinda thing.
Cuz most of the data comes froms firms
that are selling penetration testing
services and it is in their interest
to say that like the number is 70%.
It is very, very high.
The number is very high.
It is, if i had to give you
a minimum number I'd say like
more than 30% of sites are vurnerable to
this kinda thing in one way or another.
It may not be the most obvious thing but
you can
get some browsers to execute
code some of the time.
Particularly older ones.
And once this happens,
depending on what user you compromise,
if you compromise an administrator this
could be like full system control.
That is the consequence of this attack.
Cuz they can create other admin users,
sometimes they can run reports.
And if it's a poorly
built reporting system,
they'll allow arbitrary queries to
run on a database and drop tables.
Drop all tables is a pretty simple
query to run that would just
melt everything down.
And now you're trying to
restore from last backup
hoping you can pin down
exactly what just happened.
So let's look up here, so
we're gonna be using the app.
The Equihax app is a server-rendered app.
We're not using React, or Angular,
or Ember or anything like that.
We have an express server and
Node.js which is rendering HTML,
which the browser reads.
And we're using something called EJS,
which is called embedded JavaScript.
And it just basically means
that between the percent signs
we can have a JavaScript expression
that is interpolated with our HTML.
So here we'd say it welcome name and
if the name is Mike, it says welcome Mike.
And this is great, but
what if my name ends up being this like
what ends up happening is the browser will
treat it as code, and it'll execute that,
and now it's just a matter of me getting
someone else to see my name on their page,
maybe using some social engineering.
Getting into a chat system and
come up with the username that looks like
a boss or an IT help, like professional.
Please, click on this link.
Can you do me a favor?
I'm a new employee.
Can you click on this and see of it works?
And it'll be to a domain
that they're used to.
You'll look at that link and
it'll seem fine.
This isn't someone trying to phish you.
It's not a fake site.
But it's a particular page within a site
where I've managed to inject my own code.
And now, we can do whatever
the application can do, this can do now.